---
published: true
title: "Apache Kafka Series - Learn Apache Kafka for Beginners"
excerpt: "Apache Kafka Series - Learn Apache Kafka for Beginners"
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: "Apache Kafka Series - Learn Apache Kafka for Beginners"
toc_icon: "terminal"
author_profile: false
comments: true
header:
  overlay_image: "assets/images/covers/cover-cloud.jpg"
  overlay_filter: 0.2
  teaser: "assets/images/covers/cover-cloud.jpg"
categories: [streaming, kafka, java]
---

Course: Apache Kafka Series - Learn Apache Kafka for Beginners
Ref: https://www.udemy.com/course/apache-kafka/

# Why Apache Kafka


# Topics, Partitions and Offsets
- **Topics**: a particular stream of data. A topic is identified by its name. 
- Topics are split in **partitions**
    - Need to specify "how many" partitions while creating a topic, this number can be changed later. 
    - Each partition is ordered 
    - Each message within a partition gets an incremetal id, called **offset**. It's infinite and unbounded.  
    - Messages are ordered within the partition but not across other partitions
- Data is kept only for a limited time (default is one week)
- Once the data is written to a partition, it can't be changed  (**immutability**)
- Data is sent randomly over partitiions if key is not provided

# Brocker and Topics
- A Kafka cluster is composed of multiple brokers (servers)
- Each broker is identified with its ID (integer)
- Each broker contains certain topic partitions
- After connecting to any broker (called a bootstrap broker), you will be connected to the entire cluster. 
    - A good number to get started is 3 brokers. 
- Partitions are distributed across all the brokers by Kafka. 

# Topic Replication
- Topic replication factor must be defined at the creation of topic. 
- Topics should have a replication factor > 1 (usually between 2 and 3). 
- If a broker is down, another broker can serve the data. 
- At any time, only ONE broker can be a **leader** for a given partition. 
    - Only the leader can receive data for a partition. 
- The other brokers will synchronize the data. 
    - Each partition has one leader and multiple ISR (in-sync replica)
- Zookeeper decides leaders and ISR in cluster. 
    - the re-election will be executed when the leader comes down. 
    - the leader is re-elected when it comes back. 

# Producers and Message Keys
- Producers write data to topics (which is made of partitions)
- Producers automatically know to which broker and partition to write to
- In case of Broker failures, Producers will automatically recover
- The load is balanced to many brokers hosting the number of partitions.
    - if data is sent without a key, it will be sent round robin across the brokers
- Producers can choose to receive acknowledgment of data writes
# Consummers & Consumer Groups

# Consumer Offsets & Delivery Semantics

# Kafka Broker Discovery

# Zookeeper

# Kafka Guarantee

# Theory Roundup